Hi. I'm Rocket with Wreckless Blenders and this is Musings in Rocket's Celler. Today we're gonna talk a little bit about the rules of wine. This comes courtesy of one of the other winemakers, Jim Brown. You'll hear me talk a lot about Jim Brown. He's our wordsmith, and he's personally inspired me in many ways to learn about wine. He's taught me a tremendous amount. So the first rule of wine, and one of the most important rules, is 'Wine that you like is good wine.' It's simple yet profound. So, think about that. If you look at 'Wine Something-Something' publication and they say this is 100-point wine and you take a sip of it and you're like, I don't like it. Well, it's not good wine, so don't keep trying it. Find something else. My recommendation: Find wine that you like and really understand why you like it. Work on your palate to say, 'What are the things I like about this? Is it? Is it the mouthfeel? Is that the acidity or the brightness? Is it the boldness? Is it the balance? Is it just the flavors? Is that the nose? I mean, there's a lot of things to look at when it comes to really understanding what you like about wine. Rule 1, one of the most important rules, wine that you like is good wine. The second rule, and one of the most important rules, 'Wine is fun.' Again, simple and profound. You could get caught up. I can get caught up - any of us, can get caught up in all of the pomp and circumstance around wine and end up not having fun. That's not what we're in this for. The Wreckless Blenders - the four of us we’re lucky in that we get to make wine. We've kept production low and we keep low overhead so that we don’t have to make wine - and we get to share that with you. And if we were to get a tasting room or if we were to up our production, or if we were to get a second facility or whatever, then we'd have to make wine to keep our overhead - to manage our overhead. So right now wine is absolutely fun, and I think you should have fun with it, right. There's a serious side to it, but not much. The last rule, and one of most important rules, is 'There are no rules.' I know... Yeah, exactly. But let me give you a couple of examples of that - and again, courtesy of Jim Brown - he talks about the cork as simply an impediment. It's an impediment to getting the wine out of the bottle. And it's also, you know, there are reasons for cork. You know - It's elegant. It helps age the wine because micro oxygen goes through here and it helps age wine. But I got to tell you, I'm a fan of screw caps. I'm a fan of cork and I'm a fan of screw caps, because screw caps are a convenient way to be able to enjoy wine - you don't have to have a - you don't have to have a corkscrew with the screw cap. That's nice. The other one is the vessel... So if you have a nice vessel, great, use it. You've heard talk of some of the higher-end glasses where they talk about the shape matches the type of wine where it hits your tongue and it's wonderful. And if you have access to those, used them. But, if you're out in your cellar and you're tasting something to see if you like it, this is a pain to clean, especially if you're doing a lot of tasting. If you're doing, you know, the whole three or four palate checks or a vertical tasting or any of that kind of stuff, just to make sure you want to serve something I wouldn't recommend having, you know, five or six of these glasses. So these are fine, too plastic glasses and get really nice looking ones - you can get short ones, doesn't matter as long as you're not getting some weird flavor from it. And they're easy to clean and you can write on them - I'll show you a tip about that in a second. But I tell you, to understand if you like a wine - One of the differences is - excuse me a second... Oh, man, that's good. I'll talk about this one in a second. What you do get out of these that you don't here is the nose. So when you go to taste, your nose is getting stuck in the glass, and - I don't know what the percentage is, but a very high percentage of taste comes from smell. You don't quite get the same thing here. Remember that trick I talked about earlier about putting your hand over the glass? That really helps. Anyway... Vessels - use what you've got. Don't go too far, right? No rules. Let's talk about sharpies. Sharpies are wonderful. I love sharpies. If you're at a party and you don't want to lose your glass of wine, take a Sharpie and write your name on the base just like that. It wipes off - (just a little bit of effort) And it's so much better than having to remember if you had the diamond or the toy train or whatever. Those little wine charms. They don't make all that noise. So a simple way to use sharpies. And, if you're doing a vertical tasting - if you wanted to - or you're doing multiple bottles of wine - you could just write right here - on the side of this... 2013 Barbara. Right? So I put a little 13 B on there... boom! Easy, good to go. This wipes up pretty quick as well. Let's talk a little bit about this wine. So, Barbara, in general, we'll talk about the history of Barbara at the Wreckless Blenders. Not really in depth. We've been making Barbera for a really long time. It's one of our best sellers, and I've opened up a 13 Barbera. There's not a lot of this left, if any. I think maybe there's a handful of bottles left on the planet, so if you happen to have one, right on! It's good to enjoy right now - it's really peaking and definitely open it soon. The Barbara has got this brightness now, our Barbera in particular, we really concentrate on the brightness of the grape. There's Barbara's out there on the market that are heavier and, you know, over oaked. We're not big fans of that. Sometimes they have too much alcohol. Not big fans of that, either. We like balance. We like the brightness, lower in alcohol. The brightness... Jim Brown introduced me to the brightness of this, and we just say, 'Man, it's just like a 9-volt battery on the tongue.' And I took that when I went to create the label. How long ago? It's been a while, 15 years or so. I thought, when I came across these glow worms or these electric wires, I thought - that is perfect - very iconic. And it's one of my one of my favorites. The other part to this is the story that Jim Brown tells on the back labels. These are known what far and wide. In this case it’s 'Bacchus, the Roman god of wine, dreamed one tempestuous night of a mighty river flowing red, fragrant wine. By the light of the new moon, he tossed in his toga as lightning flashed across the sky. Like the bright freshness of a perfect red wine rolling across his godlike palate, thunder rolled over those ancient Italian hills. Bacchus smiled that smile he reserved for his favorite among the Nyads, a saucy sprite named Barbera... her brash wit, stinging delivery, and her long, lasting humor amused Bacchus to no end. He called her a party in a bottle. We wrecklessly concur.' Anyway. Jim Brown's musings and his writings always bring a smile to my face, and they always have great depth and meaning. (He may not think so sometimes, but I think so) Anyway. if you want to get some Barbera, we're offering online sales coming now. We've just launched our online store in this time of shelter-in-place and physical distancing, and we offer curbside delivery. And we will deliver to you (we use safe precautions). Or will ship to you via UPS. To do our part, we are offering some specials around shipping costs - we're trying to minimize the impact to you. We're offering a handful of discount specials at the same time. I'll post those later in the Facebook page and there'll be an email coming out as well. This is April 10th - is today. So just in case you need to time-check on when this came out. I wanted to say, 'Thank you.' Thank you for your support. I'm Rocket with the Wreckless Blenders and this is Musing in Rocket's Cellar. Thank you.